With the maturation of the CAL codebase, datamodels, and addition of Roman
datamodels schema and keyword values, these .tpn's will need to be updated
and/or dropped.   Key differences are that Roman is nominally pure ASDF
and the keyword value enumerations for roman will be different.

Array checks are defined for JWST's FITS formatted files and standard HDU
structures.  These will need to change or be dropped for Roman as file formats
become better known and CRDS is adapted to more fully support ASDF.
Currently CRDS has no standard way to load ASDF array properties and/or
array data,  some equialent for standard SCI, ERR, DQ, etc FITS HDUs will
be needed,  or CRDS will need to defer to romancal or the datamodels
more for any array checking performed  prior to accepting reference files
into CRDS.

NOTE: Reference file checks are good to have but their absence is not fatal, it
just means CRDS will be more promiscuous about accepting new files and may
accept invalid files.

NOTE: The original design of .tpns from CDBS used them to validate incoming
reference files and database rows used for reference file matching.
Constraints in .tpn files defined keyword values for refernce files which were
permitted to include wildcards / substitution values.  _ld.tpn files were used
to validate database rows after reference file values were fully enumerated
into discrete/real parameter values.  _ld.tpn files validate discrete values
which were directly matched to discrete values from datasets.

In CRDS,  .tpn files are used to validate the values of incoming reference files,
while _ld.tpn files are used to validate rmap files which supplanted the CDBS
matching database.

Transitioning to CRDS, the use of substitution values which must be planned and
pre-defined was replaced with P_xxxx pattern keywords which typically specify
an or-barred set of values, any of which that reference file supports.  Unlike
CDBS which exploded substitions into discrete values,  P_xxxx patterns are
directly injected into rmaps in unexpanded form keeping the rmap smaller and
easier to understand.

See CRDS user's guide for more info on certify and .tpn file organization,
syntax, and semantics.
